## Sedaro Demo Notebook: _Ground Segment Scheduling_

This directory provides a script for making advanced plots of Ground Segment simulations and a notebook for cosimulation
of custom contact scheduling. We use a `GroundSegment` to model the [Atlas Enterprise ground
station network](https://atlasspace.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/07/07192023-ANTENNA-NETWORK-ENTERPRISE-SITES.pdf), and
we simulate a scenario of a Walker delta 60: 24/3/3 constellation with uplink and downlink requirements. The scheduling
is posed as an integer linear programming problem which maximizes downlinked data under a minimum uplink constraint [1].

The demo scenario consists of the following models/results on the Sedaro platfrom:
- [`GroundSegment` model](https://satellite.sedaro.com/repositories/PPwmhZR67Jqz8t9gDsvxLR) of the Atlas ground station network.
- ["pure simulation" scenario](https://satellite.sedaro.com/scenario/PPwmhbK6kh7lnGXhRtvbkY/analyze/playback) that uses our built-in `ContactScheduler` block to plan and
  execute contacts with the Walker Delta constellation.
- [cosimulation scenario](https://satellite.sedaro.com/scenario/PQ2ZzJ5dWLyy8WSGHb9zS7/analyze/playback), where we have used `optimization_cosimulation.ipynb` to
  determine an optimal schedule for contacts.

[1]Eddy, D., Ho, M., and Kochenderfer, M. J., “Optimal Ground Station Selection for Low-Earth Orbiting Satellites”, 
        arXiv e-prints, Art. no. arXiv:2410.16282, 2024. doi:10.48550/arXiv.2410.16282.


### Using the files in this directory

The notebooks included are pre-populated with plots, so there are no requirements to view the output. However, if you
want to run the notebooks to view analytics from your own simulation or to use a custom scheduling algorithm, you'll
need to install the requirements by running `pip install -r requirements.txt` or by running the first code cell in
`optimization_cosimulation.ipynb`. 

Running the notebooks also requires that you have previously generated an API key in the web UI. That key should be stored in a file called `secrets.json` in the root directory of this repository (two levels above this notebook) with the following format:

```json
{
    "API_KEY": "<API_KEY>"
}
```

API keys grant full access to your repositories and should never be shared. If you think your API key has been compromised, you can revoke it in the user settings interface on the Sedaro website.

### Contents

- `sim_results.ipynb` - Plots the schedule generated by a `ContactScheduler` block and plots availability for each
  target-antenna pair.
- `optimization_cosimulation.ipynb` - Defines a contact scheduling optimization algorithm and implements it in Sedaro
  via cosimulation.
- `scenario_setup.py` - A script for creating official demo scenarios with the Walker delta constellation.
- `utils.py` - Provides some functions for use in the other files.
- `requirements.txt` - Required python packages